---
title: "A Soft Coprocessor Approach to the Development of Image Processing on FPGAs"
collection: talks
permalink: /talks/2016-09-28-SCPs
venue: "School of EEECE, Queen's University Belfast, UK"
date: 2016-09-28
location: "Belfast, UK"
---
Developing FPGA-based applications is typically a slow and multi-skilled task.
Tools to support application development have gradually become more high level.
This work describes an approach which aims to raise further the level at which an
application developer works while developing FPGA-based implementations of
image and video processing applications.
The starting concept is that of a soft coprocessor (SCP). A set of fundamental
soft coprocessors is presented, aimed at implementing some of the key abstractions
of Image Algebra. Each soft coprocessor processes an image or video stream, and
can be parameterised by its specific functionality. To support interactive
experimentation, the developer can edit the functionality and parameters without
requiring re-synthesis in most cases.
Our soft coprocessors are designed to enable easy chaining of SCPs, as defined
by a Dataflow Graph (DFG). This reduces considerably the amount of data transfer
between SCPs and the host processor.
Although hardware optimisation is not a primary concern of this work, further
contributions facilitate the development of more efficient and more specific
versions of the more generic soft coprocessors, based on the concept of reusable
coprocessor skeletons.
To facilitate the creation of more algorithm-specific coprocessors which cannot
be accommodated within the skeleton framework, a layered library of macros is developed, which enables a developer to create new coprocessors without requiring
extensive hardware design knowledge.
The work illustrates these novel concepts by presenting soft coprocessors for a
range of common image processing algorithms, including a novel fast
implementation of K-means Clustering for grey level images, GLCM feature
extraction, and Histogram of oriented Gradients (HoG).
Finally, a prototype implementation of an integrated development environment,
called SCoPeS, is presented. This enables a user to express an application as a textbased DFG of soft coprocessors, and automatically obtain and run an FPGA
implementation. The ability to modify an application, even during execution,
without requiring re-synthesis, is an important benefit given the experimental
nature of image and video processing application development.